# Netflix-Ratings-Prediction

IMDb is the world’s most popular online database containing ratings and review for information related to movies, television series, you name it. As consumers, we want to look at what other people think of a movie or show we might be interested in watching, and IMDb is often the go-to destination. For this project, I aimed to see what factors might have an influence on predicting a netflix movie or show’s genre, and to see whether it’s different between the two types. Both of the datasets for movies and shows we are using are from kaggle.

I performed a visual exploratory data analysis with bar graphs, histograms, density graphs, box plots, scatter plots and correlation plots to explore the relationships between the variables: Title, Release Year, IMDb Score, Number of Votes, Duration (in minutes), Main Genre, Main Production (Country Code), and Number or Seasons (for shows only). Then I set up the models, spliiting the data into training and testing sets, and using k-folds cross-validation to evaluate the model's test error rate. My Netflix Ratings Prediction used a total of five models: K-nearest neighbors (tuning number of neighbors), Elastic net regression (tuning mixture and penalty), Pruned decision trees (tuning cost complexity), Random forest (tuning the number of predictors, number of trees, and minimum number of observations in a node), and Gradient-boosted trees (tuning the number of predictors, number of trees, and the learning rate). I measured their performance using the area under the ROC curve to determine the best performers. 

